Client: README Overhaul (#1488)
ethereumjs/ethereumjs-monorepo: packages/client/README.md

# @ethereumjs/client

[![NPM Package][client-npm-badge]][client-npm-link]
[![GitHub Issues][client-issues-badge]][client-issues-link]
[![Actions Status][client-actions-badge]][client-actions-link]
[![Code Coverage][client-coverage-badge]][client-coverage-link]
[![Discord][discord-badge]][discord-link]

> | Ethereum Execution (Eth 1.0) Client build in TypeScript/JavaScript. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Ethereum Execution (Eth 1.0) Client built in TypeScript/JavaScript. |
```

| --- |

Note: there is no current release on npm and the releases from the [standalone repository](https://github.com/ethereumjs/ethereumjs-client) are outdated. Use the latest `master` to run the client. There will be an up-to-date client release soon (Fall 2021) under a scoped `@ethereumjs/client` naming scheme. 

# INTRODUCTION

> The EthereumJS Client is an Ethereum Execution Client (similar to [go-ethereum](https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum) or [Nethermind](https://github.com/NethermindEth/nethermind)) written in `TypeScript`/`JavaScript`, the non-Smart-Contract language Ethereum dApp developers are most familiar with. It is targetet to be a client for research and development and not meant to be used in production on `mainnet` for the forseable future (out of ressource and security considerations). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The EthereumJS Client is an Ethereum Execution Client (similar to [go-ethereum](https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum) or [Nethermind](https://github.com/NethermindEth/nethermind)) written in `TypeScript`/`JavaScript`, the non-Smart-Contract language Ethereum dApp developers are most familiar with. It is targeted to be a client for research and development and not meant to be used in production on `mainnet` for the foreseeable future (out of resource and security considerations). 
```

npm link
```

As long as there is no up-to-date client release on npm and for development purposes the client can be used like this:

1. Clone the monorepo with `git clone https://github.com/ethereumjs/ethereumjs-monorepo.git`
2. Set things up and install dependencies (see [monorepo docs](../../config/MONOREPO.md))
3. Run the client with `npm run client:start` from the `client` root directory (e.g. `packages/client` if working on a local copy of the monorepo)

Furthermore see the [Technical Guidelines](#technical-guidelines) to dive directly into some more in-depth development info.

## USAGE

### Introduction

> You can get up the client up and running by going to the shell and run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can get the client up and running by going to the shell and run:
```

```shell
# npm installation
ethereumjs

# GitHub installation
npm run client:start
```

And pass in CLI paramters like:

```shell
# npm installation
ethereumjs --network=goerli

# GitHub installation
npm run client:start -- --network=goerli
```

To see a help page with the full list of client options available run:

```shell
ethereumjs --help
```

### Supported Networks

The EthereumJS client is tightly integrated with the EthereumJS [Common](../common) library and gets its network state and information from this library and supports all networks support by `Common`.

The main supported networks are:

- `mainnet`
- `rinkeby`
- `ropsten`
- `goerli`

Use the CLI `--network` option to switch the network:

```shell
ethereumjs --network=rinkeby
```

The client currently supports `full` sync being set as a default and has experimental support for `light` sync.

### Custom Chains

> The EthereumJS client supports running custom chains based on a custom chain configuration. There are two ways of reading in custom chain configuration parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The EthereumJS client supports running custom chains based on a custom chain configuration. There are two ways of reading in custom chain configuration parameters:
```

  }
}
```

## DEVELOPMENT

### Design

For an overview on the design goals which served as a guideline on design decisions as well as some structural client overview see the dedicated [DESIGN.md](./DESIGN.md) document.

### Client Customization

> For getting a start on customizing the client and use programatically see the code from [./bin/cli.ts](./bin/cli.ts) to get an idea how an [EthereumClient](./lib/client.ts) instance is invoked programatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get a start on customizing the client and using it programmatically see the code from [./bin/cli.ts](./bin/cli.ts) to get an idea of how an [EthereumClient](./lib/client.ts) instance is invoked programmatically.
```

We would love to hear feedback from you on what you are planning and exchange on ideas how a programmatic exposure of the client API can be achieved more systematically and useful for third-party development use.

### Debugging

### Local Test Network

For some guidance on how to setup local testnetworks see the examples on [local debugging](./examples/local-debugging.md) and setting up a [private network with Geth](./examples/private-geth-network.md).

#### Using Debug Loggers

The client's logging verbosity level can be set with `--loglevel`.  Available levels are
`error`, `warn`, `info`, `debug`.

```shell
ethereumjs --loglevel=debug
```

> If you want to have verbose logging output across the stack you can use the f

Reviewer: unfinished sentence?

> 
> If you want to have verbose logging output across the stack you can use the f

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> For more in-depth debugging on networking the the underlying [devp2p](../devp2p) library integrates with the [debug](https://github.com/visionmedia/debug) package and can also be used from within a client execution context:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more in-depth debugging on networking the underlying [devp2p](../devp2p) library integrates with the [debug](https://github.com/visionmedia/debug) package and can also be used from within a client execution context:
```
